#### Theoretical Background
Thin Layer Chromatography is a rapid, easy method for analyzing mixtures of compounds. Theory of TLC and Column Chromatography will be discussed in lab lecture. TLC is limited to small samples (only a few milligrams). To handle larger amounts of material, more adsorbant is needed. One common approach to larger scale separations is column chromatography, where the adsorbant (usually silica gel or alumina) is packed into a tube, and a continuous flow of solvent (eluant) is passed through the adsorbant. As with TLC, the different compounds in the sample are carried along, going back and forth between solvent and adsorbant. The relative rates of these movements are dependent upon the relative strengths of the attraction of these compounds to the adsorbant and upon their solubilities in the eluant. With a polar adsorbant, the more polar compounds in the sample will be held more tightly to the stationary phase and move more slowly down the column. Therefore, when the same adsorbant and solvent system are used in both, TLC and column chromatography will yield the same order of elution for a given series of compounds. So, TLC is a valuable tool for rapidly devising appropriate solvent systems for column chromatography separations.

Unlike TLC, column chromatography is not limited to only one solvent system for a given separation. Since the solvent is continuously supplied at the top of the column, it is possible to change the eluting solvent at any point in the separation. This advantage allows us to separate complex mixtures containing compounds of widely varying polarity. For separations of such samples, the column is prepared in a relatively non-polar solvent. As the less polar components are eluted from the column, the polarity of the solvent can be progressively increased, thus allowing selective removal of compounds in order of increasing polarity.

In addition to this versatility for separating complex mixtures, column chromatography has the advantage that it can be used for preparative scale separations and purification, while TLC is usually limited to analytical procedures. The amount of material to be separated can be varied from milligrams to kilograms by increasing the size of the column and the amount of adsorbant. For convenience and economy, the separation of a mixture of ferrocene and acetyl ferrocene in our experiment will be done on a semi-micro scale.